*August 19, 2009*

### Core ###

- Fixed incorrent image drawing in GDI+.
- Clone methods use reflection.
- Added displacement parameter to Halo.
- Extended PointPlacement with PositionTolerance parameter.
- Added support of Porter-Duff Compositing operations.
- Added opacity and compositing parameters to Layer.
- Implemented FramedTextSymbolizer.
- Added Padding parameter to Layer class.
- Implemented GetFeatureInfo in WMS server.
- LabelCollisionDetector now work with labels of non-rectangular shapes.
- Implemented GridLayer class and its rendering.
- Introduced DoubleSidedLabelPlacement class and its implementation in the labelling engine.
- Fixed a bug when symbolizers with bitmaps do not release image files.
- Introduced OGR data source provider.
- Fixed memory leaks when hosting a web service in IIS.
- Implemented a smarter request queue in processing a tiled map.
- Introduced GDAL data source provider.
- Added "CacheSize" parameter to GDAL and DEM providers.
- Pens and brushes replaced with global entities, reusable.
- Extended DataSourceInfo with Format and Version properties.
- Added more features to RasterSymbolizer according to OGC SE Specification.
- Support of Bi-directional languages.
- Implemented font fallback feature.
- Added new Smooth mode for halo drawing, Gaussian Blur algorithm.
- Introduced word-spacing, line-spacing, multiline-spacing parameters for text rendering.
- Added new MultiPoint label placement type.
- Optimization: clip query envelope in StyledLayer before reading data.

### Studio ###

- Initial implementation of MapSurfer.NET Studio.
