*June 22, 2014*

### Core ###

- Fixed a bug with feature caching and OSM datasource.
- Improved the performance of DateTime.Now calls.
- Added CartoDB data provider.
- Improved performance of the label cache.
- Fixed a crash when WKB has SRID field.
- Fixed a bug when Microsoft SQL Server 2008 tries to compute the extent of the data.
- Fixed a bug when Microsoft SQL Server 2012 raises an exception of missing dbo.GeometryEnvelopeAggregate function.
- Fixed a crash when the default path to GDAL (%PROGRAMFILES%\GDAL) does not exist.
- Added SDK samples to the installer.
- Fixed Convert.XXX functions throw exceptions because of the OS culture. Thanks to **freeExec**.
- Fixed a bug of an exception during the initialization of PerformanceCounters in TMS. Thanks to **freeExec**.
- Added new parameter to specify InstallPath in web.config. It helps to run a web service without proper installation or having admin rights.
- Added new renderer based on Cairo library.
- Fixed a bug with reversing a line direction when PerpendicularOffset  > 0.
- Improved performance of the line breaking algorithm.
- Improved performance of the retrieving the size a font character.
- Fixed a bug with PathExceeding parameter in the labeling of linear features.
- Fixed the problem of missing characters in labels with more than one line.
- GeoJSON data provider supports Topojson extension.

### Studio ###

- Fixed a crash caused by missing resources during the localization of the TiffImageWriter.
- Fixed a crash when AzureBlobStorageTileCache is initialized.
- Added new export vector formats, namely *.svg, *.eps, *.ps, *.pdf.
- Fixed a bug in the rendering statistics
- Added Update Checker functionality.
- Added new statistics metric "Generated Label Placements".
- Added new statistics metric "Placed Label Placements".
- Fixed both Google and Nominatim geocoders.
- Fixed twice repeated initialization of the datasources.

