*July 15, 2014*

### Core ###

- Improved a procedure for processing multipolygons in the OSM data source provider.
- Fixed a bug in image quantization (4bpp format).
- Improved performance of PluginManager initialization by using caching approach.
- Fixed a bug of incorrect labelling in tile generation.
- Fixed ScaleFactor for Stroke's dashes.
- Further optimizations in the TextBlock calculation code.
- EnumerateCoordinates function has been introduced in Geometry class.
- Fixed an issue that ignores opacity of Graphic object in GraphicTextSymbolizer.
- Improved performance of GridPatternPolygonPlacement for large objects.
- Added two additional parameters (TagsFilter and Query) to the OSM data source provider.
- Improved storage efficiency and performance of the OSM data source provider.
- Fixed a bug in OSM data source provider which was caused by incorrect version of icsharpcode.sharpziplib.dll.
- Introduced a data source provider for MySQL Spatial Extensions.
- Improved a method for labeling lines with sharp corners.
- Performance improvement by reusing cached RenderContext and Bitmap objects.
- Performance improvement by reusing RenderContext object.
- Performance improvement through the pooling of Feature
- Optimized memory allocation in transformation and clipping of geometries.
- Improved an issue with skipping redundant tiles in the MbTiles storage. 
- Fixed a bug concerning incorrect serialization of PolygonSymbolizer.
- Improved performance of the image to byte array conversion.
- Improved performance of the Shape data source (up to 35 % faster).
- Improved performance and memory consumption of the OSM data source provider.
- ConcurrentFeatureDataReader is created only once per RenderContext.
- RenderContext has been made reusable in a web application.
- Added multi-threaded fetching of features.
- Improved performance of geometry transformations.
- Improved performance and memory consumption of the clipping functions.

### Studio ###

- Improved both cold and warm startup time by 15-20%.
- Added new export function to generate tiles for the MRMap program.

