# Release Notes for MapSurfer.NET v2.1.0

*25 July, 2015*
 
### Core
- **New**: Support of SLD styling format.
- **Fixed**: Missing text in PeakPointPlacement.
- **Fixed**: Crash when default font is missing on Chinese-localized Windows (see [issue](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/mapsurfer-net/tuiD11vC6VQ)). 
- **Improved**: Native libraries (e.g., MapSurfer.Native.xXX.dll) have been rebuilt using Visual C++ Redist 2013.
- **Improved**: Some changes in the API, several functions have been moved from Map to RenderContext class.
- **Improved**: GeometryExpression property has been removed from RasterSymbolizer.
- **Improved**: [ASP.NET based mapping service](https://github.com/MapSurferNET/MapSurfer.NET-Web/tree/master/Hosting/ASP.NET/Service) got an implementation of the [IRegisteredObject](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.hosting.iregisteredobject%28v=vs.110%29.aspx) interface to properly work with the hosting environment.
 
### Plugins
- **Fixed**: In MSSQL data source provider, removed unnecessary dbo prefix in a query to get the layer extent.
- **Fixed**: Some memory leaks have been eliminated in GDIRenderer.
- **Improved**: Excessive caching of GDI objects in GDIRenderer.
- **Improved**: Support for views in MSSQL data source provider.

### Studio
- **New**: Export/Import styles in Styled Layer Descriptor (SLD) format.
- **Improved**: Re-design of a dialog with statistics of tile cache generation.
- **Fixed**: Incorrect format of a message when a data source can not be initialized properly.

### Installer
- **Fixed**: Windows installer was trying to download Visual C++ Redist 2012 instead of Visual C++ Redist 2013.
