# Release Notes for MapSurfer.NET v2.4.0

*XX November, 2015*
 
### Core
- **Added**: Expression language has been enriched by the null-coalescing operator (??).
- **Added**: Plate Carree projection (see [EPSG: 32662](http://spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/32662/)).
- **Added**: Sharpen image filter.
- **Added**: WMS service got two custom request parameters. They are LABELING_SOLVER and LABELING_LANGUAGE.
- **Added**: WMS configuration has been extended by introducing an ExpressionResolver parameter, which defines a name of that class that is responsible for dynamic resolving of text expressions both in TextSymbolizer and GraphicTextSymbolizer.
- **Added**: WMTS supports generation of high resolution (retina) tiles.
- **Added**: GetMetadata method has been added to ITileCache interface. This allows extracting additional information such as data extent, layers, etc.
- **Fixed**: PointPlacement annotates the smallest part of a polygon instead of the largest one. 
- **Fixed**: TileCacheGenerator throws an exception when Cairo renderer is used.
- **Fixed**: Projection parser throws an exception if PARAMETER element in WKT follows UNIT element.
- **Fixed**: Incomplete labeling of a map view when Buffer parameter is greater than 0.
- **Fixed**: Incorrect positioning of a label when graphic symbol is GlyphsGraphicSymbol.
- **Fixed**: Offset geometry transformation function is not applied when one of the arguments equals 0.
- **Fixed**: Layer extent is computed incorrectly. 
- **Fixed**: An issue of mixed-up coordinates when a WKB has Z value.
- **Fixed**: An internal exception is thrown when WGSBounds property is not empty and map projection is EPGS:4326.
- **Improved**: Coordinate reference system is detected automatically from layers as it is not provided explicitly.
- **Improved**: Dynamic link libraries (e.g., MapSurfer.Native.xXX.dll) have been rebuilt using Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable 2015.
- **Improved**: Improved performance of [data source](/usermanual/data_sources/vector/index.md) provider instantination.
- **Improved**: Shape, GeoJson and OSM data source providers can download data via http and extract them from compressed files such as zip, bz2 or tar.gz.
- **Upgraded**: protobuf-net library has been upgraded to version 2.0.0.668.
- **Upgraded**: Newtonsoft.Json library has been upgraded to version 7.0.0.0.
- **Upgraded**: MySql.Data library has been upgraded to version 6.9.7.0.
- **Upgraded**: GDAL library dependency has been upgraded to version [1.11.3](http://www.gisinternals.com/query.html?content=filelist&file=release-1800-x64-gdal-1-11-3-mapserver-6-4-2.zip).

### Plugins
- **New**: [Module](https://github.com/MapSurferNET/MapSurfer.NET-CartoCSS) for reading CartoCSS stylesheets.
- **Fixed**: Shape data source provider crashes when a shape record does not have MBR field, i.e. shape type is point.
- **Fixed**: Shape data source provider is not able to properly detect dbf encoding.
- **Fixed**: Multiple errors in GDI renderer when ScaleFactor is greater than 1.
- **Fixed**: Incorrect line drawing when DashArray element of Stroke has an odd number of elements.
- **Fixed**: OGR data source provider is not able to detect geometry field in a CSV file.
- **Fixed**: Vector tiles data source provider does not support direct reading from mbtiles storage.

### Studio
- **Added**: A check if the required rights are granted to the destination folder when a tile cache is configured. 
- **Added**: New option which allows generating high resolution (retina) tiles.
- **Improved**: Representation of news in RSS listbox in WelcomeScreen window.
- **Improved**: Store the file extension of a previously opened project file.
- **Fixed**: Unhandled exception when a project has EPSG:4326 coordinate system.

### Installer 
- **Improved**: From this point, the installer requires to download and install Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable 2015 instead of previous version Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable 2013.
- **Improved**: More detailed message when a tile generation process was interrupted by an exception.
- **Changed**: osr_csharp.dll has been moved from \Core\Plugins\Providers\OGR to \Core folder.
