# Release Notes for MapSurfer.NET v2.5.0

*21 July, 2016*
 
### Core
- **Added:** The "Equal Tilde" operator (=~) that allows using regular expressions. 
- **Added:** New parameter StronglyTypedExpressions.
- **Added:** Additional parameters in ColorMap property of RasterSymbolizer. These parameters are DefaultColor, DefaultMode and Epsilon.
- **Added:** New halo mode SolidAndBlurred.
- **Added:** PointPlacementPriotization property to LabelPlacementSettings which defines a list of preferred placements for point-feature label placement (for example, Imhof's or Yoeli's guidelines).
- **Added:** BackgroundDataFetch property in RenderContext.
- **Improved**: Performance of the look-up table that resolves coordinate systems by id.
- **Improved**: More detailed exception when the layer extent is null.
- **Improved**: More detailed exception when a font is not installed.
- **Improved**: Improved performance of inserting tiles into an MbTiles database.
- **Fixed:** TextSymbolizer doesn't clip geometries.
- **Fixed:** Unnecessary line break in PointPlacement when the text block starts with a line feed character '\n'. 
- **Fixed:** Clipping in LineSymbolizer does not treat Polygons as LineStrings.
- **Fixed:** Flipped coordinates (latitude 180 degrees) in geocentric transformation .
- **Upgraded:** .NET Framework 4.6 is now required.

### Plugins
- **Added:** Support for [Tiny well-known binary](https://github.com/TWKB/Specification/blob/master/twkb.md) format in PostGIS plugin.
- **Added:** Support for IntegratedSecurity (PostGIS).
- **Fixed:** Several bug fixes and improvements in [CartoCSS](https://github.com/MapSurferNET/MapSurfer.NET-CartoCSS) module.
- **Fixed:** The combination of characters such as "\n" (two chars) is not considered as a line break.
- **Fixed:** OGR plugin crashes when a field with X-coordinate has 'lon' name.
- **Fixed:** Multipolygons are missing in OSM plugin.
- **Fixed:** Graphic object is not properly positioned when Size property is given.
- **Fixed:** Halo is rendered with a dashed stroke (GDI renderer).
- **Fixed:** Incorrect rendering of Smooth halo mode (Cairo renderer).
- **Improved:** Memory consumption and performance in decoding vector tiles.
- **Improved:** Support for more complex queries in PostGIS data provider.
- **Upgraded:** [System.Data.SQLite](https://system.data.sqlite.org) library has been upgraded to version 1.0.99.
- **Upgraded:** mod_spatialite library has been upgraded to version 4.3.0a.
 
### Studio
- **Added:** New editor for CartoCSS projects.
- **Added:** New dialog that shows details about project loading.
- **Added:** Menu item File->Export->Export Map Styles...;
- **Improved:** WelcomeScreenForm provides a list of recent projects with preview.
- **Fixed:** Application can not be launched by using the newest VC++ Redistributable package v14.0.23918.
- **Fixed:** The project name (window title) is taken from a Carto project, not from the file name.
- **Fixed:** Fixed a crash when a textbox with latitude/longitude contains an incorrect decimal separator value in GoToLocation form.

### Installer
- **Upgraded:** The installer requires .NET Framework 4.6 to be installed.
