# Release Notes for MapSurfer.NET v2.6.0

*22 March, 2017* 
 
### Core
- **New:** Added Color property to ExternalGraphicSymbol to support coloring of SVG images.
- **New:** Added Alignment property to GraphicsFill which controls the alignment of a pattern. Possible values are Local and Global.
- **New:** Added Anchor property to LinePointPatternPlacement.
- **New:** Added IsRepeated property to LinePointPatternPlacement.
- **Improved:** Performance of WKB decoding by 60-70%.
- **Improved:** Performance of PNG encoding by 10-15%.
- **Fixed:** An exception thrown when a label contains a new line character '\n'.
- **Updated:** SQLite has been update to version 3.14.2.
- **Updated:** Json.NET has been update to version 9.0.1.
- **Updated:** protobuf-net has been update to version 2.1.0.
- **Updated:** Native libraries in folders Native.X86 and Native.x64 have been rebuilt using Visual Studio 2017 toolset. 

### Plugins
- **New:** Added "Memory mapped" option in the dialog to configure the access to shapefiles.
- **New:** PostGIS plugin detects connection settings from the environment variables such as PGHOST, PGPORT, PGUSER and PGPASSWORD, if they are not explicitly specified.
- **New:** Added OracleSpatial data source provider.
- **New:** In CartoCSS processor, added xxx-visibility property to toggle symbolizer visibility. Possible values are visible and hidden.
- **Improved:** For the sake of compatibility with SQL queries created in TileMill(Mapnik), we added support for query tokens T_PIXEL_WIDTH and T_PIXEL_HEIGHT.
- **Improved:** In PostGIS provider, changed the layout and the behavior of the dialog to configure connection settings.
- **Improved:** In MySQLSpatial provider, changed the layout and the behavior of the dialog to configure connection settings.
- **Improved:** In Spatialite provider, changed the layout and the behavior of the dialog to configure connection settings.
- **Improved:** In MsSQLSpatial provider, changed the layout and the behavior of the dialog to configure connection settings.
- **Improved:** Modified internal calls in MySQLSpatial plugin to support MariaDB.  
- **Improved:** The performance of the Shape data source provider by 40%.
- **Improved:** In OctreeQuantizer, Color32 struct is passed by value that generates a lot of memory allocations.
- **Fixed:**: PlainMetaTileWriter closes an underlying MemoryStream, this behaviour throws an exception in the case of RecyclableMemoryStream.
- **Fixed:** Shape data source provider can not be initialized when "memory mapped" option is enabled.
- **Fixed:** GDI renderer throws an exception when dash pattern contains 0 value.
- **Fixed:** In GDI renderer, stroke width is two times thicker than expected when ScaleFactor equals 2.
- **Fixed:** In GDI renderer, ScaleFactor is not applied to halos.

 
### Studio
- **New:** Added a context menu in MapViewer, which allows copying map extent, mouse coordinates or map image to the clipboard.
- **Fixed:** Incorrect highlighting of symbolizer properties when a style contains any attachments.


### Installer
- **Fixed:** The installer does not detect Visual C++ 2015 Redistributable (x64) – 14.0.24212.0.
- **Updated:** The installer checks/requires Visual C++ 2017 Redistributables. 
- **Updated:** Build year has been changed to 2017.
